---
title: 'Throughts: Tumblr vs. WordPress'
author: "Juan Orozco" 

type: post
date: 2009-09-01T04:04:39+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1824
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Although I am a devout WordPress fan, I am not beyond trying new things.  There are two services that I’ve heard great things about, Tumblr and Posterous.  The goal was to create a new site for my Moblog, one where sending an image would be fairly automated, easy, and would look good.  I was using Flickr for this purpose since September of last year, but now that my Pro account is about to expire, the question of renewing my account began to float in my mind.

Flickr is a great service, but the fact that I can’t customize the design is a huge turn off for me.  Using it as a gallery for my photography, an online family photo album, and a moblog seems to have compounded the whole issue as well.  Either way, I didn’t see a return in my small investement so I decided it was time to find alternate solutions for my image hosting needs.

At the time, Posterous didn’t have an iPhone app nor does it allow custom designs, but i really liked how it handled photo posts.  Even though Posterous didn’t have an iPhone app, using the Email app was still an option – even though it made it a bit more time consuming.  Ultimately, the lack of design options left my choices down to either Tumblr or WordPress.  This was an experiment from the beginning; a learning experience, if you will.  So, I chose Tumblr.

Immediately, the first thing that I noticed about the service was it’s ease of use, the myriad of options, and it’s simple design.  Even though it is a well designed interface, I knew right away that that Tumblr would not become my blogging platform of choice.  Sure it’s pretty and simple to use and maybe even somewhat customizable, but not like WordPress.

That brings me to the beef of my beef with Tumblr.  Multiple authors