---
title: Leading a team or commanding a team
author: "Juan Orozco"

type: post

draft: true
url: /?p=2834
categories:
  - essay
---

I've found, mostly by being a subordinate, what type of leader's are most effective as far as bringing innovation, uniting a team, and being successful overall. It comes down to the simple difference in words. You can lead a team or you can command a team. I've met a lot of people that are great commanders; they know what needs to get done, how to get it done, and what type of people needed to get things done. More often than not, though, they experienced difficulty commanding their subordinate's respect and loyalty.

Conversely, I've known few true leaders. These people commanded well, although admittedly, not always succesfully. Being a true leader is hard work, it taps all your skills and can be very stressful.  They're not perfect; they have admitted flaws and failures.  Struggle makes us stronger and maybe that's a key component, because these flaws and failures makes them stronger leaders.  They've done it. They've made those mistakes so their team doesn't have to.

In easier terms: a commander is book smart; a leader is weathered and dirty.

The more I think about it though, different types of leaders exist, but thye can fall in those two general categories.  A third category, I've noticed, is the lead by fear types.  I've never seen this type of leadership last.  Yea, sure, it's effective in the short term and you can get some pretty good results, but it takes a lot out of the team.  It takes compassion, understanding, strength, and a tough skin to be a true leader in my eyes.

The relationship between a subordinate and the leader is important.  A leader can get pretty far without the subordiate, but it goes back to being a commander or  a leader.  George Washington led charges in battles - he had the respect of his armies.  Even though he was sending them to their deaths, they believed in him - they had that relationship.

There can be many different leadership styles and each one can probably find some sort of success in one form or another.  The question is, then, what is the desired end result.  To be an inspiring leader? To be the one with power?  There's no real answer to that, but I wonder how many people say their managers were less than successful at managing talent and why?
