---
title: Tron review
authors: 
  - "juan-orozco"
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2651
categories:
  - post

---
When it comes to movies and books, I'm a simple guy. I ask one question and then derive whether or not the movie was good or not.  That question is, "Was I entertained?" Sometimes it's, "Did I have fun?"  To me, that encompasses what a movie should do: entertain.  There is a lot that goes into making an entertaining movie -the story, the acting, the music, etc.  I think, at times, we look to deep into what a movie is rather than what a movie does.

Tron is a great example of that.  Tron changed the world.  I still can't figure out why some people don't like it - the biggest response from these folk are "I just don't like it."  I wonder if that's becuase it's just too geeky for them. In either case, they can't deny that Tron reached cult status quickly.  It's in all part of society and that is my point. Tron may not have been a great movie and was a complete disaster at it's release but, well, here we are, preparing for my thoughts on Tron Legacy.

Tron Legacy was entertaining. I enjoyed the hell out of it. I wanted to jump out of my seat in amazement during Flynn's final scene, but refrained from doing so so as not to embarass my wife.  She's not as geeky as I am and not nearly as exciteable. The whole movie hooked me in from beginning to end and it wasn't because of just one thing.  I liked the story, I liked the effects, I liked the light cycles/light jets/light buggy (or whatever that thing was called), and I really liked the music.

You can sit around and poke holes at a story all day long.  In Tron Legacy's case, there will even be a few valid points.  In the end the answer to my question remains the same.  Still, I am curious about a few things:  Like in Penny Arcade's comic last week, I too wondered about the food.  What WAS he eating?  The movie is called Tron, right? I think the movie should have ended with a more triumphant return of Tron than what we got.  I for sure thought we were going to see him swim out of the water after the credits, but nay.  I like Flynn's end, but I don't remember him being so Dude-esque in the original.  That part kind made my eye twitch.   Ciri said she saw dead bugs on windsheilds. I think she had a bad pair of 3D glasses, but she swears she saw something. Lastly, Zuse. Zuse was worthless and pointless. I wanted to punch him in the virtual gonads.  The Matrix took some ideas and concepts from the original Tron and made them it's own thing. Zuse felt like he was supposed to be the Marovinchian of Tron, but instead felt very crutch-like and lame.

All that said, I want to go back and watch it again. And again... and, probably, again. I haven't wanted to do that in a looong time.

Speaking of watching it, we watched it in 3D at the IMAX. This was my first 3D movie and overall, it's pretty cool. It's also very gimicky.  As a nerd, the technology is amazing but as a movie lover, it feels out of place.  Take the music in Tron, for example.  It's amazing, it helps paint the mood for the movie; the movie would not be the same without it.  3D on the other hand, is completely optional. It doesn't add to the overall experience, I don't get anything extra out of it except an occasional, "oooo..."