---
title: Greening Up Our House – Part 2
authors: 
  - "juan-orozco"
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=970
categories:
  - Uncategorized
tags:
  - Green Life
  - green living tips
  - sustainability

---
When we last left Rogue Dad (me) he was frantically installing CFL's around the home and swapping the baby's used cloth diaper with a fresh one.   Now, he's back with more tips on how to green up your home.   Here he comes now...

So, how sustainable is your home?   Our home, previous to some modifications, had a fairly large carbon footprint.   I know the whole carbon footprint is debateable, but my point is, our home was not as sustainable as it could be.

Today, I am going to concentrate on food.   Food is what gives us energy to tackle our hectic days.   Without proper nurishment, we'd be, well, dead.   The preparation of food takes time and energy in itself, and as we have progressed in our busy lives, we opt to stop by a fast food joint on the way home instead of "wasting" time to cook a meal.   It's a trade: we pay for our own time.

Listen people, take it from someone who has gone through "the change," and reverted back to our roots of home cooked meals.   It's worth the time and effort.   That's today's first tip:

**Cook more meals from scratch**.

Cooking food rather than buying it pre-made can save oodles of money.   Saving money isn't the point of this here post.   We want to do our part in saving the environment, even if it's small increments, at least it's something.

Home made meals can help with creating a more sustainable home by reducing

grow your own veggies

composting

Make your own baby food! http://www.wholesomebabyfood.com/