---
title: Bubble Graph, a RaphaelJS wrapper for Bubble Charts
author: "Juan Orozco"

type: post

draft: true
url: /?p=3025
categories:
  - post
tags:
  - Bubble Graph
  - data visualization
  - git
---

Learning new things, as a developer, is constant. It's probably the ONLY constant in such a dynamic field like web development. I love that aspect. I love learning.  My biggest problem, though, is application.  I learn and learn and learn... yet rarely apply.

I argue (to myself) that in order for one to apply what one learns, one must understand all aspects of the environment.  Whether that is true or just an excuse is an argument I rarely take on.

Regardless, I finally have come to terms with myself.  This year will be the year I show what I am capable of.  To start off, I am learning as much as I can about data analyzation and visualization.

I love data. I love the idea of using data for new and exciting things.  My job currently entails the conversion of forms and modules to PHP, JavaScript, HTML, and CSS. I love it. But there is all this data sitting around not being used for much. What better place to exercise some data visualization than at work.

One set of data that I came across was page hit analytics.  I thought of how to better express this data and possible meanings of new relationships.  I cam across a bubble chart.

Not being a person to take the easy route on anything, I explored the interwebz on how to create charts from data. In search, I came across RaphaelJS.

It's a great tool that bascially creates vectors on a canvas.  It's used a lot for charts and graphs and after checking out the API, I decided to focus my time with Raphael.

The end result of the past month or two is a meager script (I didn't get as much free time as I wanted to). But the little guy can create this with just a few lines of code:

IMAGE

It doesn't look like much, I know.  The script treats parent nodes, children nodes, and the lines as individual objects.  Lets say Parent Bubble is a page. And the children bubbles are people. If I wanted to, I can make the person that visits the page more often a thicker line. Or a different color. Or even a bigger bubble.

I have made it a public repo on github and will continue to update it as I continue to work with some of my data.  Before I get to that point, though, I have two more "phases" I want to complete.

The script creates shapes and paths. But it cannnot yet update them once they are initialized. Updating is the next phase.

Collision detection is the last phase. I want the chart to reposition itself if the user changes an attribute that makes one object collide with another.  Not having ANY experience with vectors or collision, I expect this may take me some time.

Going back to applying myself, I like that this is my first step.  Once this is complete, I'll be able to play with data more since creating charts will be faster and easier.
