---
title: To Web Developers everywhere…
author: "Juan Orozco" 

type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=2988
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
A good friend and co-worker committed suicide last week. I miss him, a lot, and, come Monday, I'm going to miss his skills and presence at work.

As a friend to him, I feel like I could have been a better one. Maybe if I had paid attention to the signs more, he would still be at his desk on Monday. This type of thinking is a slippery slope, right? We all make our own decisions and even though the consequences of our decisions can ripple across the globe, they are still our decisions to make. In honor of him and to be a better person and friend overall, being there for my friends and showing them that I care is something I must do better.

As a developer at work and in the industry, I should have recognized his skills more. He wasn't the best developer, but he tried the hardest to get better than anyone I've met. Speaking to his charahter even more, he was blind to the buearacracy and egos of an organization. He only cared about delivering something great. I secretly envied his attitude towards our work. It didn't matter how long the days were or how thankless the work was or how boring the tasks was... he did it. And he did it to the best of his ability - any less would be herasy to himself, his friends, and his employers.

It's sad how jaded we can become in an environment and forget our core values and goals. In honor of his attitude and view on the universe, I will hold on to my values and goals with a stronger grip. He reminded me why I love what I do so much. I will never forget that and if this obscure man leaves any imprint on the world of web development, I hope it is this: if you think something can work better, then make it work better.

To my friend, I miss you. When we meet again, ima beat the crap out of you. Until then, I got your back... and thank you.