---
title: Running Notes
author: "Juan Orozco" 

type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=8
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Running itself is not all that fun but I love it nonetheless. I prefer trail running more than anything but if in the absense of trails, I need to have some nice scenary. This is partly because I need life around me but also because running is almost like meditation for me and having nature surround me helps the meditative state. Unfortunately, that means running around my neighborhood is difficult to sustain.

There are no trails around where I live. Sure, the area is fairly rural the density is still enough to snuff out the good vibes I get from nature. If there were accessible trails it would be a different story but oh well.

Luckily, the area around where I work has AMAZING trails. The roads can get pretty busy but the trails weave in and out of tree lines just enough to make it a really enjoyable excercise.

<iframe height='405' width='590' frameborder='0' allowtransparency='true' scrolling='no' src='https://www.strava.com/activities/1359904686/embed/82a99294dec91210f59b252d721399ce5efa6da4'></iframe>

## Preparing {#preparing}

I'm a huge fan of listening to your body versus other people's recommendations based on _their_ bodies. Sure, some research is helpful in _understanding_ your body but I've realize that taking research as canon does more harm than good. For example, I don't stretch before a run - I start off slow and work myself up. I can feel my legs and muscles loosen up as I go along. I don't get cramps and (knock on wood) haven't injured myself yet (at least from not stretching).

Other preparations I like to do:

  * Eat something sugary before a run like a protein bar or, my favorite, a banana.
  * Drink LOTS of water. I feel like I need more water compared to other people - something to do with my metabolism? I just feel _really_ crummy when I'm even slightly dehydrated.
  * Add a pinch of salt to my water. I really believe that there's a lot more science to electrolyte drinks but at the same time, some high quality sea salt in my water feels just as great. Perhaps my feeling run down when dehydrated is due to an electrolyte imbalance?
  * Try not to think about the run. If I think too much about it, I'll start to come up with reasons NOT to run. "It's too cold", "It's too hot", "I forgot X", "It's late"... blah blah blah. I try to focus on my day ahead so I have some actual important problems for my brain to focus on instead of finding problems I don't need.

## Post Run {#postrun}