---
author: Juan Orozco
categories:
- Uncategorized
draft: true
slug: decency
title: Decency
type: post
---

As our field heads to maximum saturation of trained and capable engineers, we are in a unique position to dictate what the overall culture will look like for generations to come.

Junior engineers don't need to be forced to work long hours simply for the opportunity to learn from masters. They deserve a work-life balance as much as a seasoned engineer does.

I've seen and heard of places gaslighting engineers into thinking that they're slow and should therefore work more hours to make up the time. I've seen managers expect longer hours when people make mistakes, essentially getting free overtime. I've seen threats of dismissal if some quota isn't met. This should not be the norm.

For some, it isn't the norm; they've never experienced any of the above. For others, it's just separating the wheat from the chaff and they are better engineers because of the trials.

There is a difference between having a challenging career and an unsustainable one. Computer engineering \*should\* be a challenge; it should be hard and it should be a field where we constantly learn, innovate, grow and collaborate. Computer engineering should not be a world of friction and competition with each other.

We have a chance to make this field inclusive and special. We need to stand up for ourselves and each other.

Engineers solve problems for businesses. Engineers respect the presented problems and their craft. Engineers embrace the challenge.

Do not allow our peers in interviews, in conversation, in pairing, in code reviews, in chats, in standups, in grooming sessions, in demos, in emails, in any part of our day to day communication to spread the idea that we are less. We solve the problems.