---
author: Juan Orozco
categories:
- Uncategorized
draft: true
slug: recent-documentary-kick
tags:
- opinion
- reviews
title: Recent Documentary Kick
type: post
---

I like to have background noise while I'm working. Music, TV, movies, podcasts, whatever. For the most part, I need that distraction to help me concentrate. Movies, though, are too strong a distraction so recently I found a new attraction to documentaries.

Films like Second Skin, The King of Kong, and Helvetica are some recent pickings that have graced my Netflix streaming queue.  Unlike these picks that were mainly entertaining, I found a few others that really opened my mind and made me think.  King of Corn, Blue Gold, and No Impact Man are some that come to mind that really spoke to me.

Raising children isn't easy; keeping their little bums clean is a tough job, and anytime they leave the house, my paranoia is on high alert.  These documenatries add to the paranoia.  My kids are eating way too much crap corn and privatized water while contributing to our global carbon footprint.  Twerps - but it's not their fault!  This is where the movies made me think.  What am I doing to help reduce the impact on our planet.  What am I doing to teach my children to be responsible.

THe biggest issue, at least to me, is that we live without respecting the responsibilites to the earth we live off of.   Long ago, I decided that I only wanted two kids - this would be my contribution to population control.  As a couple, Ciri and I decided to go for cloth diapers rather than disposable diapers.  There were many pros and cons to thhat situation, but in the end, the deal breaker was the simple fact that disposable diapers are the number three source of trash for dumps.  That's a lot of poo.  But I digress.

No Impact Man sounded like it was going to be about one man's adventure and experiences in living an impact-free life for a year.  I got more about the social dynamics between him and his wife while living without coffee, ice, and electricity during the experiment.  I'm paraphrasing, but you get the idea.  I still liked it, and it made me think about how little we actually do.  I hoped to see more data on his year long experiment in the movie, too.

King of Corn goes into how much work goes behind growing corn and how it is in almost everything we eat.  It was interesting to see how much the current species of corn has been genetically modified. So much that it has very little nutrional value when consumed.

Blue Gold was hard to watch.  We're running out of water and we don't care -but we should.  THe biggest thing I took from this was to be more active in teh community with the kids.  Teaching them to speak up is important (Nestle, you suck.) and to think for themselves too.

My favorite one so far has been Stronger Faster better.  Altough mainly abut steriod abuse, it touched on the use of ADHD drugs in school to help with grades.  Essentially, it asked the question, what is cheating?  It was tough to watch because i realized that the lines are blurred, yet I have to teach my kids that there is only black and white. Cheating is cheating -or is it?